---
title: Introduction to project + dataset descriptions
number: 1
date: "22nd of March 2022"
---
# Main idea

The main objective of this project is to go through all necessary steps to do a complete analysis of some **realistic business data**. It’ll be divided in two parts:

- Functions to generate the data
- Steps to analyse this data

I’ll generate the data using Python in Jupyter Notebooks. The objective here is to create somewhat realistic, and above all consistent datasets, that follow some set trends plus some randomness (both in individual values and the trend itself).

I’ll simulate around 3 years of data, with some set growth during this period of time. For this, I’ve decided to generate the data about a made-up **B2B SaaS start-up**.

## Dataset 1

The first dataset will hold few data points: only those coming from the billing process of paid customers. This will include:

- Contact person’s first name
- Contact person’s last name
- Company ID (or personal ID number if self-employed)
- Email
- Payment method (Stripe, card, bank)
- Price plan in use

Regarding the price plan, it’ll have three variables: type of plan, number of users, timing.

- Type of plan: 3 plans: business, pro, enterprise. Enterprise pricing will be considerably higher, given it includes implementing fees (hours needed to complete it) derived from connecting the start-up software with their ERP.
- Number of users. Regressive increase given the number of users. Business plan includes 1 user, each additional one will have an increase in price. Same for the pro (starting at 5 users) and enterprise (starting at 20 users) plans.
- Timing: at some points (2) in time in the past, there was a price increase, so that a business plan that a client signed up for in the beginning will carry that price up to our current date. In future iterations there will be a change in strategy where prices will be regularised (so some clients will unsubscribe).

This first dataset will be stored in an table. New rows of data will represent new customers. Those who churn will still be in the dataset, with the column “Active User” set to false.

It’ll have around **5000 paid active users**.

## Dataset 2

The second dataset will also be an Excel-like table with sign-ins to the free 14-day trial that is automatically from the website. This data will include:

- Contact’s first name
- Contact’s last name
- Email
- Company’s name (not required)
- Industry (not required)
- Question: How did you learn about us? (not required). List of options to chose from.

This dataset will also include automatic data for each row:

- User’s country
- Date of registration
- Web browser

This dataset will be extremely noisy, as many registrations won’t represent genuine interest in the software, but only curiosity. All fields but the email can be fake. Email can’t be used more than once.

It’ll have 120,000 rows.

## Dataset 3

This third dataset will hold data as if it were a CRM, meaning that it’ll be a relational database consisting of a record of different types of interactions with contacts.

It’ll be composed of

## Data summary

To summarise, the data will follow these guides:

- Located in different files
- Some will be in relational tables
- Some in excel-csv files
- Rough numbers: 5000 paid customers, 100,000 have tried free demo. In Excel
- An avg of emails (could be 0, unlikely) per contact or company. Received, opened, answered.
- An avg of calls per company (assigned to contacts) with some outcome
- An avg of meets given company outcome. If company becomes client, has to have a minimum of 3 meets (1 discovery, 1 signing contract, 1 implementation)

---

About the storage of the data

The environment I’ll be working in is: ...

Let’s start creating data!